I said I wanna come on to level 2
Catalan how you guys doing this is the
seventh episode of the mah podcast and
I'm joined by a very special guest move
team on there who is otherwise known as
these disciple he's a graduate from the
studio of the voice of Madinah and he's
well known as well for his excellent
loose on hadith disciple YouTube channel
that correct son namely YouTube channel
yeah that's right that's right
and so actually one of the things that
he's known for is being the kind of
pragmatism self synthesized Islamic
knowledge with practical knowledge of
the world and be very much flexible in
terms of his understanding of the
religion and balance in his approach
when dealing with very controversial
issues pleasure to have you on the show
pleasure to be hosting thank you I
really I really appreciate it
I'm doing that like the last time we in
America wasn't it San Francisco right
yes I think it was what was the San
Francisco it was a Sacramento that's
right in the debate with a blush and you
were there pleasure pleasure to come
back to you cake fights open up you know
me now I think the fights open now yeah
so when we already you know for 14 days
hey why wanted to start off by asking
and is obviously you go through a
rigorous process of lash student of
knowledge type material and you enter
the university you've done studies there
if someone wants to start now learning
the religion of Islam understanding the
Quran and the Sunnah what kind of plan
would you put for them in place what
kind of thing would you put for them why
should they start this is a question a
lot of people ask why should we start in
terms of understanding the Dean
recommend what kind of
program would you recommend for them
clear miss nila hamdulillah I would say
um it's a fork in the road you either
want to be you have the availability of
a teacher yeah
a mentor a guy regardless of the level
someone's with you all the time so once
a week once a month even online or
you're totally self-taught and you don't
have a teacher available you don't have
a structured program in front of you
available and sometimes in 2020 in a
virtual war Koba 19 will have a mixture
of the two I have a teacher in person
but also have access to a wealth of
knowledge a wealth of recordings lessons
et Cie so if you have a teacher and an
instructor in person we're talking about
a real life person then of course best
to ask them and that didn't guide you
and let them summarize and break down
and simplify things for you if you don't
have a teacher then you're gonna have to
let yourself and that's not necessarily
a disadvantage in 2020 main person I
have a student in New York City one of
my students we've been doing a lecture
together once it's one maybe three four
years ago and he said that ignorance and
2017 or 2017 is a choice it's a choice
it's not like back in the day in which
only the aristocrats had access to
knowledge only people of high birth had
access to certain types of knowledge
people of certain races could read and
had access to libraries only only people
that had access money could travel and
2020 every single of the laws a canary
has access to not some knowledge but a
wealth of knowledge a wealth of
knowledge and all of these things are in
light of the different revolutions of
the world the Industrial Revolution the
concept of empires falling colonies
people went in their independence
globalization et Cie so all of these
things play a huge role a huge role on
access availability towards knowledge a
man I would alter him alongside him as
you know in his serie
the AMIA the governor of Busra after
they had a lot of fighting a lot of
problems different revolts and
rebellions revolutions big fitna that
was known and bustle and a time I would
old so the city or much of the city was
burnt burnt to a crisp
many things were destroyed many people
were killed
lives were wasted people were violated
and the governor of Western he wanted to
rebuild Busra
he wanted to you know make it a
sprawling metropolis once more you want
to rebuild it and from the plans or from
his his tactics was to make Basara once
more a heartland of knowledge and a
center of knowledge a stronghold of the
in look at the wisdom of this leader
this political leader now hikmah and he
knew that he met with the old regime
Allah Allah was the best or at least one
of the best in the business at the time
one of the most learning people of
knowledge of my death
so a man he made a man without an offer
it offered him obviously a place to stay
a place to live a way of surviving you
know etc but he put stipulations upon I
would old and one of the stipulations
that he placed upon him was he says that
you'll come to the Royal Palace and
you'll hold classes for hadeeth for me
and my sons me and my sons the princes
or you know the Emir's under me you give
us personal classes I'd obviously be a
mere Basra he can't say with this
servant this peasant this person was a
slave this person of this ancestry I
can't sit with Denis it's an
embarrassment so humiliation and he made
other conditions and stipulations him
every thought he agreed to them except
for that condition and he said that
knowledge cannot be for one class
knowledge cannot be for an aristocrat
without the peasantry knowledge is not
when someone of a bloodline all the DNA
of a genealogy so the moral the story
was is that that Amir he was following
through in the tradition is that there's
knowledge only for certain people for
certain classes but in 2020 within a
number of milliseconds not a second
seconds milliseconds you press one
button and you have a wealth um in in
front of you a wealth of it
all right and obviously that's a
blessing and that's also a curse if we
care for as well so with that being said
we have to understand that knowledge is
it ignorance is a choice and our times
it is a choice
so those brothers who want to study
sisters who want to study they want to
benefit I think often times you talk
about it too much
we dramatize it too much we romanticize
it too much instead of just doing it
miss me laughs and just because you
start off on the wrong foot or you don't
have everything proper in the beginning
doesn't mean that you can't change
we know the famous narration of a
companion some of them they said Jana
CollabNet in my one a7f hee hee Nia
we had no specific intention when we
started seeking in two models they're
gonna knee it's about then afterwards
the law gave us the proper intention
that be right on he said concerning this
FM he said Leanna no fool says Zakia
Temujin your souls are never pleased
with ignorance pure souls good people
they're never comfortable just being
English so the concept is is that they
started awfully to have the proper
intention and then later came so what
that being said a teacher a program a
curriculum we always said I need to
start with the philosophy has to come
first and we're very yawning strong
proponents for called the pop culture
and I don't mean my pop culture actors
and singers and dancers and musicians
PLP meaning purity of philosophy purity
of philosophy so our mindsets have to be
correct before we even think about
taking a step and people I don't think
their philosophy is pure when it comes
to seeking in people think I have to
seek knowledge in this country or with
this person or just like this and and I
have to say this and knowledge is up
here first and foremost and once you get
it up there and your philosophy is pure
everything physical becomes easier
so therefore the curriculum or your
teacher may show a lot achieving
something simple it should be something
clear and should be something easy and
digestible something that you can take
small bites sometimes you can walk
slowly and gradually build and wind up
your momentum insha'Allah Allah
so baby steps are important longevity is
important ease and simplicity and it
goes back to the purity of philosophy
many people they think we have a book
method and forty hundreds no week we
have a shot which is fifty pages and the
author isn't that known or isn't that
famous isn't that repeated and then we
have a 500 page explanation of a great
great famous scholar the beginning
student think so after the following
page book that he can't handle he can't
understand it's way too much it's way
above and beyond him but because his
philosophy isn't pure he ignores the
fifty page explanation and eventually he
quits they get burnt out
[__] well then use the dictionary every
two seconds every word any tips in and
jumps onto another book in another class
and those are the brothers and the
sisters I'm pushing on we see five years
later James later not studying anymore
dropping out of school I'm back home
what happened I thought you were Medina
oh well you know you know because they
didn't take the proper steps and
progressiveness to double-check the
problem alright so your teacher or
yourself whatever program you use Medina
Egypt Yemen South Africa every program
you use it should be simple and easy and
it should be a step to build up your
momentum and then you start taking jumps
and leaps later on been denied Salah
whatever that program may be as far as
what to study first then before you even
get into Quran and before you begin into
the IB language once more I would say is
you should dig further into the culture
of telamon
dig further into the culture read the
books listen to the lectures sit in the
classes about how to be used in the
knowledge and what is it stood an
argument isn't still no knowledge
because those wooden things allow you to
have longevity jumping in and out of the
class Arabic oughta be a penny a day
kundina
you burn out but you have to become
ingrate and engrossed with the poem and
then I am a student of knowledge
I love knowledge and I want to seek it
what I'm in jail what a minute UK was
I'm in the scorching sands of Arabia or
more taenia wherever you are the mindset
everything begins and ends with mine so
start off with the
Apollo and I hummed Allah in Arabic
there countless books in English there
challenged books lectures and you teach
it he's a good teacher the first thing
he's gonna try to do is to get you to to
be devoted to this art this culture of
seeking knowledge and being a student
knowledge for real and not a fraudulent
Lewallen you know when you were saying
circle nothing for that when you were
saying about with the wood story
rahimullah I was thinking about the ayat
of the Quran no Holly Salam when I saw
the Shara and a lot of hard when las
plantas describes his story and that
people says like at whatever I cut out
of the road and hello
you know leave the marina lowly closet
and this idea is even repeated for I
remember as well in Suez and on what
Lanka says the same thing you know yeah
the knowledge is actually for all us is
an old people the beautiful oneness is
throughout the Quranic this goes from
north all the way to solomon s it's a
beautiful thing about our religion and
I'm not kind of outlining that story
because it was actually a very profound
story I don't think many people would
have come across and and something else
I wanted to mention as well based on the
lost woman that he made was like the end
up of Taliban would the mannerisms the
etiquettes and the spirituality it has
to come with it I won her that changed
my life and reading it is badeah today
yeah in the beginning in the first
couple of chapters he demarcated and
actually translated to English it's
called the beginning of guidance and he
says that if you're if you're if you're
doing tolerable island if you're trying
to learn in order to get you to compete
with your peers you know then you're
basically a game is up
yeah and so it's what kind of it like
this is a beautiful thing because number
one you're saying is open the atom is
open
but number two also you have to have the
right kind of psycho-spiritual state
before coming to Donna blood on a really
practical level you mentioned a couple
of books at the end it's someone nice
okay he agrees with that and and he'll
or she once an hour bark upon just a
very basic this person is just let's say
for example wasn't practicing it slam
now assigned to practice Islam an
extremely basic program what would what
would they start with an extremely basic
program hmm by um well first and
foremost an extremely and have a very
important point you mention about the
spirituality in a psycho spiritual realm
cause and of course the words that came
after was a tease uh yeah illumined
Dean's the motifs are several different
versions of that more that's to clean in
hazzard costs again and in the beginning
of all of those books there is kita will
in and he talks about seeking knowledge
for tinnitus your peers competing and
that's that's very very very stark in
our society and that's because it is
actually translated into English as well
I think then the manipulation it's quite
new it's not the epidermis is cousin or
something yeah and there's several then
you have he also mention about how
people they'll focus on the technical
knowledge and ignore the spirituality
behind it and they don't seek the
knowledge of the soul and that's very
stocker as well people they seek
knowledge just for the technicalities
for and for landfill and friend but they
ignore their soul and that's an issue at
the end of the day a very simple basic
easy program for person ten key points
or ten ten key guidelines to seeking
knowledge excellent book in Arabic in
English
Enrique is Elijah Lata scene and Edney
by Abdullah so thick
that's an Arabic and in English as well
as a very concise lean book that gives
you ten main successes or pieces of
success to seek knowledge that's very
personal in other book
are afterwards a Muslim be denied tada
he should learn the basics of the
recitation of the Quran in six of how to
decide the Quran properly not to be
attached mcmaster but the basic simple
proper recitation of the five prayers
all right
also be denied on I would advise on that
Muslim to learn the things that he needs
to answer integrate the the three
questions that every Muslims want to
face and of course from the best of
those books is auto surah flat ribbon
I'm going to I have right now on tada
they even have rain Matata obviously he
came later one and they're scholars who
rolled vines vines and slam way before
his time with his book is simplified
it's easy its laid out and is free from
just yawning promises they saw a
problem-free very important book for any
basic Muslim let alone a student of
knowledge it's a very small talk as well
like pages or even smaller versions then
that which is in English as well even
smaller versions game another very
important book as I'll add you back I
looked a hot team at to modify a lot
could be Muslim or Muslim and that's in
English as well and then there's certain
things that I don't know I love it but
it is it is an English for sure yeah
it's been years agos the years since
I've seen it but these are basic books
to let your fund in terms of Islam and
the obligation of knowledge like I said
purity of the philosophy I know ya Jeeva
Dana and I'll do more - that's golden
that's golden and those values that you
learned in the beginning in that book
they stick with you for the rest of your
life a little couple encoding what Amin
how much suffering do we face on a daily
basis and ignoring that principle
speak after you know do after you know
how many of us talk about ignorance we
think we feel we follow someone and then
we have problems we do harm to ourselves
and to others
all right of course obviously the basics
of the Arabic language is shallow but
before that s non-muslim the fortress of
the Muslims very important learn the
earth care of the Prophet sallallaahu
them only have care of the Quran and
that goes back to
you said about the spirituality of
seeking knowledge psycho-spiritual very
important connect yourself to a law all
the time and if a law is not protecting
us again knowledge you came to
successful and most importantly as you
have to develop your memory you have to
learn and discover the magic of revision
you have to discover the magic of
revision and many of the pious
predecessors they will say with accurate
only in I had to move the lifeblood of
knowledge is revision so how do you know
the dicket before you go to sleep so
well how do you lick them for you drink
after you drink yeah you keep doing it
so you have to train yourself that there
is no mountain that's high enough to to
to taught a climb if you just keep
practicing it with rechlicz were hidden
hiya - ok revising knowledge is the
lifeblood of the vertebra of him and you
learn this rule and become well lucky so
- baqara you trying to memorize it was
from a stranger I act this one is an
entire page it's intimidating but when
you keep reviewing it and reciting it in
a prayer and teaching to others you
learn it like that so you get that total
B and M I said from the FK let alone the
spiritual protection and it connected to
a lost final Dada all right last but not
least is to learn the basics of the
Arabic language not the grammar but the
vocabulary and it takes small bits and
pieces of grammar to form basic
sentences for conversational purposes
and many people they start off with a
joke mia they start off with this new
book and they go from a Tibetan ship
away and that's a human and that is
often ends up being burnt up and finding
the Abbott language to be too confusing
and too difficult you got to learn how
to talk you gotta learn how to listen
you gotta learn how to conversate
okay um hey I don't tell you no more
stories with regards to that nothing
that's clear and charlotta there's a
book that I for beginners I saw which is
quite nice and most of you've come
across this quote al-kitab' let's se yes
yes yes for sure
mm-hmm
we get for the cameras several several
with the simplest and easiest and even
if it's a bigger book just take the
smaller portions of it mmm mm-hmm
okay now obviously you studied hadith at
university so that's your kind of area
correct hamdulillah I was fortunate
fortunate enough to go to the Prophet
City for over a decade or about a decade
roughly um and learn all of these same
Sciences most of them a basic level from
them on hamdulillah
and that was my major yes in a college
find some idea how many now so one of
the main talking points in terms of
Islam what are the things that we would
consider a USP that is very unique to
Islam
comparison to other religions even a
course other histories ancient histories
is the way that our tradition has
actually been preserved so given in a
nutshell if you like a summarized
version wait
tell us how has paddy's been preserved
and what is the clear clear well like
you mentioned not just for religion and
faith but also for history it's not
about that there are some experts in
specialists they've done a lot of
research with regards to the history of
narration and the history of the chain
of narration obviously a hadith composed
or is composed of a Senate and I met him
there is the chain of reporters and the
actual report so some specialists they
have tried to go to other religions
other faiths and not just Islam
Christianity and Judaism also Hinduism
the mainstream religions some call the
Abrahamic faiths things like this ok
they've done research and they've looked
to the extent of the usage of the chain
of narration and those other religions
and those other books and there are
there are usages of reports that but
there's never been a time a place people
or religion in which the chain of
narration played such a
pivotal role like the vertebrae in the
body of that religion like Islam there's
never been a religion or way or even a
historical event because the history of
the Arabs the language of the ABS the
culture of the Arabs is extremely and
immensely indebted to Islam Islam
improved their history the preservation
of it the report of their language their
letters their speech
everything was polished by slap there's
never been a time or place in a religion
in which preservation and precaution and
precision and such a mighty punishment
has been placed on lying and fabricating
and being inaccurate minutes left
there's no button there's no doubt about
that one of the non-muslim Orientalists
who studied Islam who attacked Islam
Yemen Lee who was a student of one of
the worst opponents of Islam was Joseph
Scott in German Orientalists and he made
the famous statement fairly effed up in
a Muslim onna behead me I need him he
said if the Muslims could take pride in
anything it would be the science of my
not poetry the love of horses and this
and that he said genealogy I think if
they pride in anything it will be inland
Aziz and he was a open staunch opponent
to Islam to the hadith but he
acknowledged that and we all know the
Arabs have a famous statement in that
fog La Masia he that me and I death
okay true props true regard comes from
one's opponent that's true recognition
the opponent doesn't like you he doesn't
love you but he respects you and he
takes off his hat he bowels through and
says I acknowledge you and your prowess
we were not friends we're at odds with
each other but I definitely respect and
acknowledge you as a person as a brave
fearless man all right so therefore in
were hadith is something which is very
special it's very weak and this is found
in the Quran and Canaan which Allah
surgeon tells us in their new nazar
Nadira whenever hula heart you doona
Allah so he says that indeed we have
sent down the vehicle and
we shall preserve it and the vicar
initially means the forend
it means the Quran Allah says we have
sent down a friend and we will preserve
the Quran now there's one or two things
that we can say now number one is does
this include the Sunnah as well as if
the verse says indeed we have sent down
the Quran and Sunnah and will preserve
them both or does it just mean that the
Quran is missing down and the Quran will
be preserved but the interpretation of
the Quran the understanding of the Quran
the big stories of the crane how can we
even have any sense of the Quran without
the hadith and that which is a necessity
of the brain to be understood practiced
implemented reflected upon also must be
what preserved as well it makes no sense
for a person to have very expensive
acrostic Springwater
and he carries it in his hands he says
we want to take it from the spring I'm
gonna walk on my trail or my bike I'm
gonna hold it in one hand I'm gonna go
in my house and I'm gonna take the
spring water in my hands and in my jaws
on up like this only a fool will do that
the more expensive the water the more
pure and pristine of water the vessel
the glass the plastic the box whatever
you preserve it in has to be just as
what just as good rather even more
costly and that's because the thing on
the inside has to be preserved and kept
safe and if you don't have the outside
is preserved and kept safe it's a waste
of time
so Alonso - no doubt about that he has
sent down the Quran and he has inspired
the prophet Sulaiman Solomon given him
revelation as well and the
interpretation of the Quran
understanding the application and like I
said very important word is the sense of
the fore-end the quranic stories so many
Allah says Carbonaro - for what - cement
indeed we see that your face is turning
about looking into the skies looking to
the heavens but in the one hand
applicable that sent on by will give you
a direction of prayer that you'll be
pleased with what is the law of talking
about cause a lot talking - who's
turning their face in the sky anyone
everyone who's looking into that means
what is the direction of prayer work
what was the direction of prayer
manuela home I'm cricket Azima let's
again waria what changed them from the
qibla in which they were facing who was
praying when these questions can't be
answered Allah so Johnny tells us about
the Prophet with a serenity you that
when the proper made a secret or some of
his wives whose the Prophet yeah cool
tray Greece Ilyas and then Kiffin well
and maybe you was who's the prophet and
who audience wives as the man allowed to
have more than wife in Islam Allah said
some of his life worst wife what was the
secret how can you make sense of certain
time in chapter 33 makes sense out of it
verse after verse story after story that
you cannot understand the beginning the
end or the middle without deep thoughts
on them so many people they talk about
the preservation and so now we have to
look at the preservation of Quran and
the Quran is the starting point and it's
also the last frontier for the reality
that the Sunnah of the person was
preserved and those who reject the
hadees' and say that they do not exist
they're made up in their last they are
non-muslims and he has rejected the
Quran they have rejected the friend and
Allah you could be tells us for Jenny
don't be she had in Kabir on use the
Quran and fight them with it strongly
okay vigorously so we don't have to get
into this historical report
I had party that she's deal with you are
could end with Jeff Hardy's rejecter
please make sense of the Quran makes
sense if you can make sense but I accept
your argument that I need to all lies
they all made up two hundred fifty years
after the Prophet no problem but make
sense I don't chapter 33 make sense out
of this soda make sense out of this
verse when did the process of waters the
law says into the home for the gates
who's he talking to
what is he talking about who's 8 and
let's close on a problematic issue that
they have no answer for except through
the require this turned out the process
in brief secondly is the prophets of I
saw him sooner
just like the Quran we don't believe
that is based off of just human effort
but there are things which are
miraculous and the things you try
above and beyond the ability of the
human to do and then they are miraculous
miraculous and if we lose sight of that
and if everything is just mundane and
everything is just academic and
everything is tangible there lies no
doubt we will lose our faith and we lose
our faith the game is over nothing else
to do afterwards so we can't lose again
scope of that but of course there are
tangible reasons behind this one to be
preserved in the time of the prophets
but before we go that far I don't to
take too much time is very important we
have to understand the power of
prejudice and the power of racism and
the power of a person feeling inferior
and a person feeling superior to another
race we have to understand that race
color class a nation these things are
involved in every single aspect of life
every sphere of life including studies
in academia and there's not a time in
which race and color and religion is
separated from these other aspects of
life listen to these words carefully and
from that is academic studies of a slant
for a person to come from another
country and to travel thousands of
thousand miles another part of the world
another climate and it take eight
hundred nine hundred a thousand years of
scholastics of studies of in depth
futuristic state-of-the-art detailed
studies and to ignore them neglect them
find part of them throng them that is
based off of racial superiority or
inferiority and that is the concept of
Orientalism that the Muslims for over a
thousand years they had her own gran
lumen hadith Osuna thick all of these
different Sciences and I came from
Hungary war was my country a thousand
years ago eight hundred years ago what
science and knowledge of astronomy did
we have of Hygiene of this and that the
embryo so many things they were lost
stuck in darkness and the Muslims has
sprawling city
of libraries baton hikmah do you know
how many volumes of books were burnt one
the seeds of book that took place
historians say that me the they say that
the sea became black from ink millions
and millions of books were lost another
Scotland a debate there and they said
that the Mongol invaders did not burn
big to Hitler
that's the discussion the point is is
that that's only one library in one city
a book that the Muslims world thousands
of lines of books not just one its name
in sizes as well and for someone to come
along and you say that these Sciences
are all flawed there are lies they're
all based on political gains
sectarianism she asked Sunna it happened
that he's doing that because of
something and it's not just pure
scholastic or academic research but it's
because your way is flawed and the
reason why is flawed is because you're
Arabs your Berbers your Kurds I'm
European I'm Hungarian I'm German our
way is automatically superior to your
way and it's very sad and unfortunate
that many Muslims have fallen victims of
this and they don't even realize it they
don't even realize him and from the
manifestations of this is the feeling
that if something isn't written down if
something isn't documented the way we
wanted to be written down and documented
then it's automatically a lying false
and this is the main premise of those
who say that the Hadees were not
preserved because they weren't written
down in a time of the project rather 200
even though even though a lot a big part
of Western tradition all the way back
you know the Iliad Homer's Iliad is on
for sure
yes likewise even the Torah is the Jews
claim although they don't have a chain
of narration which I'm sure you're going
to talk about what what that entails but
they claim this oral so the the bedrock
of Western society which was
judeo-christian values was based on
documents or books that claim to have
been orally transmitted things like
Homer and the Old Testament itself
trying to say that this is this is very
much the new Orientalist critique
well these are Chinese whispers you're
talking about the Senate these are
actually where Chinese whispers it's not
a meticulous preservation mechanism and
a lot of it wasn't compiled until the
third century and these are the kinds of
things that may be orientalists I think
just is actually one of them who sent
this would say they would say things
like so what makes your method actually
any better than these other methods or
wise special why's it so unique sure for
sure so that's a very excellent point
and ask the to copay of course people
attack someone on something today a
guilty themselves okay and of course
somebody will say well we aren't
Orientalist Orientalism has faded out
the colonial age is going well the Arabs
they say in the Mukunda comen only could
leave home and wedded and someone is
going to inherit and these people in
these modern academic universities they
have inherited and they don't even
realize so at the end of the keep things
brief because that's a very long
discussion but I did want to shed light
on that is the foundation of that and
just because something written doesn't
mean that it's authentic
and just because something is orally
passed down it doesn't mean it's alive
let alone the fact that there were
countless had it's written in the time
of the Prophet I mean I think a great
example of that as well just think of my
head probably one of the best examples
of that is language like sure which in
the beginning early civilization it was
the way that language was transmitted
orally or over mathematics itself is a
language
I mean people when they learn maths they
didn't necessarily depend on the books
teaching each other from how they were
at all the things that basically will
even body land the way we are taught and
the way we speak and all these things a
lot of it is most of the things you
could argue this transmitted
generational mass transmissions and
some karate language evolves from that
perspective and that is the requirement
here when you have like you know you're
gonna inch a lot talk about this
principles and case which stop you know
certain things from being changed right
so in terms of nada hadith what are the
principles that are in place that would
kind of ward off this Chinese whispers
allegation how do we set someone says
well someone says this and three or four
centuries later it's communicated as
this how do we know that it's not being
changed
clear for sure well I think first and
foremost is that we have to know what
we're speaking with everyone is uh we
have to we have to make a distinction of
who we're talking to we're talking to a
Muslim scientist we tell them to a
non-muslim are we talking to a man a
person of faith and religion whether the
Buddhist Hindu Christian or someone
who's an atheist or agnostic someone who
just bases off of the nether the
material mundane things and if we don't
know who we're speaking with then of
course we're not gonna go too far so who
are we talking to if a person accepts
the Quran and they are Muslim they have
doubt they are sincerely concerned about
the Hadees in the Sun etc it is very
simple answer and first and foremost we
say to them do you know everything about
the Koran do you know everything about
the crane do you know everything what
sort of came down first was sort of that
came down last do you know the the way
of the Quran being transmitted of course
the average Muslim the average student
Najma said of course I don't
so what makes you so demanding and what
makes you so imposing that you have to
know every meticulous detail about the
hadith tradition there's a serious
question now and it's not running from
the answer but it's a serious question
now if you can't answer that then
obviously your questions about Haditha
aren't yeah where you going we can sit
down and talk about the Quran you don't
know everything about the brand and much
of the Quran and your faith in it is
based off of blind faith so many people
they are very ignorant of the sciences
of the Quran which are sciences but they
want to be masters of science are these
Muslim they want to be masters of the
hadith
water and it's mostly and that
absolutely makes no sense they make some
sense and one of the most important
principles of teaching someone and
uplifting and raising from them doubts
is to show them their ignorance you have
to be shown their ignorance and then
it's not embarrassing someone or playing
someone but it's to show you that you
need to humble yourself and most people
who talk about our needs mean for us
they're blindly finding someone and
you're very haughty and arrogant and in
telling this is not true for over 300
years who said that where are you
getting this from for over 20 years I
just wanted written down that's not true
that's a lie
so I think we have to show the people
their ignorance and take it back to
their faith of the Quran how does the
Lord tell us to go back to something
which is totally false there's not one
single person of where ends and which
Allah tells us to obey him and only him
not one verse in the Quran which Allah
says well to Allah that's it
now once every single time the law tells
us to obey Him immediately afterwards it
is and the messenger and His Messenger
rather there's some persons in the brain
which along so behind what commands us
to obey only the Prophet only the
messenger and not Allah that's deep and
it's profound
how could Allah tell us to obey someone
whose words are lost and made up and
everything is fallacy everything is you
know just a tradition so make sense out
of the brain tell me about the Quran all
the signs of Graham and then that's all
hopefully then I'll tell you about the
Hadees in the Sunda and until you can do
that you're being hypocritical and
you're not sincere as far as if it's a
non-muslim then it goes back to what I
previously said what are your standards
of academia or scholastic criticism are
you supposing something and as most of
the criticism levied against the high
needs people Yanni yes we don't they're
making fun of the yet we don't think
it's like this in most cases it's most
likely it's most likely it's most likely
secondly is this actually look at the
criticism so to make an example of this
now so people they say that the Hadees
were used for political gain
we had mahalia Johan who and we had Adi
for the other one
so therefore the easiest way of
legitimizing someone's Authority
someone's power of state is to the
profit
I am the profits nephew I'm the profits
cousin I'm the promised relative I am
from the province uncle I best attach
exception sensitive so therefore they
say that the hadees' were made up
because of the sectarian Wars between
Benoit maiya and then in our best fight
so therefore that's their premise is
that due to the fact that there's doubt
this reasonable doubt there was a need
for the Shia to legitimize themselves it
was need for the Sunnis to legitimize
themselves in to consolidate power right
no problem
so you're telling me that if someone
abuses of science and uses refines for
their cause of their agenda or their
propaganda then the science
automatically becomes false and made-up
and fabricated are you telling me that
if that's your premise then there goes
science mathematics navigation religion
christianity judaism because all of
these different Sciences in these
different books they were used to
monopolize people people's lives
it was wealth in this territory so
therefore science is false because
someone a scientist came he proved wise
okay to kill this minority and they make
a genocide against these people in the
Holocaust in these people would you
accept that premise of course they were
rather they have faith in those Sciences
even though people for centuries have
misused them and abuse them but the
hadith sorrow matically made-up
fabricated because some supposedly
abused them she I used them against the
Sunni the Sunnis use them gifts this
year
Wow his people use it against at least
people are these people that's false
that's first and foremost second years
the population strata slam he gave us
the guiding principles upon which
Western academia is based on and that is
precision that is precaution that is
integrity
equity okay and that is research and
that is meticulous detail and so many of
the messenger of allah so louis hadith
he himself he made down these values in
which Western academia was nothing to be
mentioned at the time there was no such
thing as Oxford or Cambridge
when they travel from country to country
and they met 30 more hundreds and 40 of
my hundreds for one narration and verify
and analyst goes one of the meticulous
criticism that was laid down what do you
believe it or not no problem over a
thousand years no problem
but for you to just come and say that is
haphazard collages and statements and
actions put together as a problem all
right and that comes from in my personal
opinion in my studies that comes from
the racial superiority complex and the
racial inferiority complex is that our
way superior in all aspects and your
ways are inferior in all aspects and
that itself is a line we learn that from
history many of the sciences of the West
was stolen and borrowed from the east
and and it's not just about jew muslim
christian we talk about masons
everything is based off of the east in
ancient egypt and all those countries so
that was the source of all of their
guidance and all their knowledge on
their science so the point the point
that i'm trying to get to is is there
who are we talking to some went up
science let's talk about science someone
who's supposed to be an academic let's
discuss academia now but not what i
think and i feel and now of accusations
with actual documentation actual proof
and now yeah i'm sorry
kind of summarize what you're saying
what you're saying is that look just
because something can now has the
propensity to be used in a way which is
fitting to their or an agenda it doesn't
mean that the principal's will be the
actual defend on the science itself it
becomes corrupt for example you gave the
example of science he says let's let's
take the example historians are Ingenix
so the fact that you justify racial
programs against certain groups of
people jewish people it doesn't mean now
that science has become a corrupt
Enterprise just because it's been used
in that cutscene it doesn't mean it has
become a corrupt Enterprise yeah
principally right so you're saying the
same thing now that with hadith that it
can be used like anything else it can
potentially be used in a in a wrong way
in a in a corrupting way however it
doesn't mean that the principles of the
guiding principles and
are corrupt it doesn't follow that's
what you think success sure
and rather rather the hypocrisy of the
whole argument and I'm trying to make
I'm trying to place place focus on goals
Iyer okay Ignazio sire he's the founding
father of supposed academic criticism of
Islam in traditional Aslam and obviously
somebody's gonna say well we're not
orientalists Orientalism they fail out
they have extinct but they aren't
extinct and most academic institutions
they glorify this man
the glorifying and his his suggestions
his reservations and his the results of
his research soon as they most of them
have been accepted so we are firm
believers in striking the Shepherd and
the sheep will scatter we're not going
to run after fifty sheep take off the
shepherd the sheep will disperse so
let's attack the heart of the whole
entire yes that's a line from the 5050
rules to power or something been trying
to become negative 80 IQ self yes that's
what I'm saying
you mentioned eugenics people don't even
realize that the catastrophe that took
place in Eastern North were based off of
eugenics and there was a scientific
justification for the crimes that were
committed and supposedly committed so on
and so forth it was a scientific
justification and you look at this man
is being a lunatic or madman but to him
he said I'm following the way of nature
so just because someone abuses something
or uses something for his gain how can I
make the whole entire science made of
enforce obviously that's not sensible
that's not far from being academic let's
bring forward maybe for a tip to make
the viewers kind of touch way is we're
talking about in more explicit terms can
you give us an example of like a Senate
you talked about the chain of
right how did just just to give people
kind of a taste of what we're talking
about we're talking about this very
simply generation yeah it's an it is
between you and information project a no
narration we have you and the actual
report so if I'm watching the news we
say that something died and in very bad
trained around me train was derailed
okay I was hundreds of miles away from
the train derailment I was in my home I
didn't see it I didn't hear it directly
I'm far from it but I'm getting the news
so between me I'm on my living room sofa
and the derailed train and a hundred
people that died there has to be a chain
and that chain is let's say the train
conductor survived the crash or an
eyewitness and then eyewitness or the
the the the train conductor he signaled
for the emergency and then the ambulance
came and then from the imminence the
police came and the firefighters came
and then the news outlets came and then
it's broadcasted to my living room so
between me and the train being derailed
and the people losing their lives and
our accident there are people between me
middlemen mediums so that is the chain
the Senate and the train being derailed
500 people lost their lives horrible
accident that's the Meccan that's the
actual wording that's the text that's
the actual story
so therefore between me and that
obviously the news come from thin air it
can't come from a dream it can't come
from a hallucination it must come from
from being masseuse tangible tangible
alright so in Islam between us and the
prophets life sometimes over 1400 years
we didn't meet him so la la Li was
solemn we would love to meet him
but we did not meet him physically I
mean we hope that we meet him in the air
after some of our money who saw him but
we didn't meet him physically so
therefore between us and him there are
people there men or women who are those
men and women that is called the Sun
it's named the chain of reporters and
obviously we're not going to have a
hundred people 200 people between us and
the Prophet that's just too long but
between us and the hadith collectors
those who compiled the narrations put
them in a book in a cage
between the author of the Kanan and the
Prophet himself
there is the chain so any people would
be in that chain would you say maybe
three for the least is going to be three
to five okay three to find example of
like of a salad that goes party rahim
allah and his sahi yes samples hadith
said only three people join him in the
Prophet so an example there's many
examples remember Hardy got him along he
has a ship so he says hi death and I
left Ali if not bless his teacher
McCarty was a student of him
I'll even I'm did that he got it from
sook-yin oh yeah now who was his teacher
Sophie I need Nina he got it from a man
whose name was I'm gonna bend enough and
Mickey I'm gonna bend enough he took it
from Jabba the son of had deliverer who
met the prophesy said more even our best
as an example amenable quadinaros from
abdullah bin yusuf from him and manage
him mm quite at him like he never some
elbonian man okay you know immersing
trade from Zippity et Cie so we're
dealing with history already died in the
middle of the third century and the
profit audience ought to slam obviously
it's almost 200 years 20 years and
here's what death so therefore a
memorable hard he's gonna have his
teacher okay and then his teachers
teacher and then his teachers teacher at
the companion in the profit so those
names that you read the first check
abdullah yusuf i'll even though i've
been there i bought me a man whoever the
chef's remember party is that is
McCarty's teacher and it's going to be
either two more or three more men or
women will cheney memorable party in
between the prophet sallallaahu
clearness or not yeah remember party
says i definitely a man called burnished
or a one and it's only allah akbar' any
I blow bade male submits aloo masala
Lonnie was salami appalled Len in action
ladies those four men a bogeyman Shuaib
zuly ever made and ever forever and the
other time he was only for men or three
men
or two men and one woman that's the
Senate that's actual chain nose actual
names from sahih al-bukhari so something
we got a character shake as many people
Muslims and non-muslims alike they think
and they feel that the hadeeth have only
been preserved and the only way of
grading in critiquing hadiths is the
Internet and this is extremely erroneous
rather than criticism of the tetes takes
precedence over the criticism of the
mention knuckling Metin know cut them on
a necklace in it
so the text people they talk about this
nerdy status now which is important
that's the backbone like we said but
it's not the only way whether the
earliest scholars of hadith they never
differentiated between the senate in the
Matteson there's one thing rewire last
let me why can you can you touch upon
that so it's something which it is
clearly contradictory right to the
Quranic discourse is that something that
would be rejected in the other days
there lies no doubt but that's never
ever gonna happen there's nothing off in
it report
yeah which clearly clashes against look
we're in rather rather this goes back to
my previous principle is that there are
many ayats countless ayats that seemed
to be contradictory and a scholars of
Islam they have a systematic scientific
way of removing the supposed
contradiction in clash so the ish
Carroll is not specific to Hadees
there's several ayats which are
'muscular Samuel well I'll give you an
example like in on the inside Muslim
there's the hadith of the table where
the atom was created from Friday and on
Friday
yeah and while I was reading one times
and some criticism of Derick Whitney and
the body even in saying that this seems
to contradict the narrative of we can so
this trip actual yeah it is it is a
correct rule but it has to be used
properly yeah and we would not know is
it now we would depend upon the usage of
the early scholars who already done that
that process of course
of course but the science of
interpretation is one of the most
important sciences I was living and that
is also applied to the Quranic verses
themselves well forgotten creation of
the heavens and Aries so what did
Eliezer just make first the heavens the
earth were the trees with the mountains
placed there is this discrepancy what
for us today
yeah I've seen some discussion when
among them with fishermen like for
example if not best seems to say that
the heaven was created first but then
Qatada says well the earth so sorry if
not best as the earth and then Heather
says the heaven because of the by the
delicate eye and there is a proper way
of understanding that and there's a
proper bringing harmony and the same
applies to the authentic hadees however
yes will you will you what you're asking
about is that which is called magazine
induct yeah oh a directed nuts is it
proper for me to criticize the
authenticity of a hadith because it's
supposedly clashes with the Quranic
narrative yes
that is one of the styles and also
history and also other authentic hadith
and also even common sense but that's
not for every person and every person is
fancy and every hasty person who just
wants to find fault and say that is
fabricated and then you take if you take
that and you take that approach like I
said that will lead you to reject you
know what the Quran itself I was gonna
say all people don't realize this
beautiful Ellen or this very
sophisticated science which is referred
to as animal again or the idea of the
science of men the by aggressively the
biographies of men which which is a
incredible compliment to this whole
standard system that you're talking
about and so much as not only now you
have this system but you have people who
are literally mi5 check if you ever
checked everyone we have their
biographies Azhar as monk if those
individuals meet that criterion required
in order to be transmitters of the
Hadees that's something which is not as
rigorous in in Western historical
discourse in
touch upon the placement of Albert ideal
these kinds of concepts of kind of
vibrancy bribery fees of men how do you
miss women is walk up how do we use this
in order to to kind of do 10 p.m. or
roughly also track well I mean that's
like you said let's talk about the
countries in which we live
Western societies we talk about criminal
law
you mentioned mi5 FBI CIA all these
things how many people in America are
named John Tracy Mike Wow how many last
names are there Smith William kept
Muhammad Abdullah countless and they
have a sophisticated system of
differentiating between this one from
that one fingerprints I recognition did
a birth middle name and then the scores
on the Muslims were doing this in the
third century the second century the
fourth century when the West was
considered to be Spain and the Iberian
Peninsula and Lygia that was it that was
the West West was Cordoba there was no
such thing as the new land Newfoundland
there was no Iceland in greenland there
was no America according to those people
okay so in Murray Jack no doubt about
that is one of the greatest
contributions to human society and one
of the biggest feats in the history of
the humankind and that is the science to
precisely systematically look after
categorize separate combined names of
thousands upon thousands of men and
women different tribes different races
different lineage different genealogy
and classifying them so therefore if we
try to discredit in literature or look
at it as something which is a footnote
but something which is extremely faulty
and flawed then our Western societies
also flawed in useless okay why am I
being harassed in the airport right now
oh we thought you were someone else we
thought you were a different person how
was that my passport number is not the
same as him my name is not spell M
always mu
they're not being honest they're not
telling the truth and when they wouldn't
pinpoint someone and follow someone they
know what exactly how to do it and it
allows them that that is they have been
inspired from the Muslims efforts so
that's first and foremost secondly is we
study in one hadith Muslim Hadees
there's so many rules that pertain to
names nicknames by name surnames tribes
of a person was many a minute they used
to be slave there's so many different
detail points of making sure that this
person is not that person al Mysterio
I'll tell it well motorists as
mutashabiha al Dan Alma Fareed Alma JA
here okay men many Shahada become yet II
don't ask me he men not to be a lady
I bet all ya need chunk a chunk slice of
hadith animal must Allah is the
precision of the names and the people
and making sure that we don't in jumble
and mix people that this is a John Smith
and that's also John Smith and they may
have the same middle name it may come
from the same city or town in England
but they're two different people the two
different individuals one is a liar ones
trustworthy one met this person one
didn't meet this person so that in
itself there's an endless sea of Indian
and those who actually want to study it
and want to find it is the more you
study it the more you're humbled by it
you're humbled by it and I think that
one of the reasons in my a stencil with
this I think me personally from my own
studies and along those best one of the
reasons why the Western critics
made such a heavy claims against the the
Muslims and the sciences of Muslims of
course there's race they have other
agendas and aims but one of the reasons
is because it was just so marvelous as
if it was unbelievable how could one man
memorize this much how for one man
travel this long how can one person do
this how could one man have the ability
to it's impossible it has to be alive
it has to be fabricated and that goes
back to society and culture our society
in our culture everything is written
down everything is recorded everything
is documented you'll find someone and
other societies on which nothing is
written that nothing is documented and
call them savages but we call them they
are behind they are prehistoric but you
ask them about this trade and I'm not
this cracked and I'm a dislocation he
asked him about this direction and you
will be shocked how sharp their memory
is ok and this is something which is are
very important in American history I'll
give you a brief example of this there's
a true story of a man I don't know if
you've studied his life named Cochise Oh
Cochise was a very very very important
leader of the Chiricahua Apache Indians
or natives obviously people use the term
Indian politically incorrect and the
Apaches here they were considered to be
the last the last of all of the the
longest war in the United States history
of Indian Wars to hold out from the
occupation and it refused to be placed
on reservations they refused they just
they just they refused so this Marion
area name was cochis cochise here who
was a great leader of his people and
there was an American soldier or an X
American soldier he was tired of the
lies he's hired of the bloodshed was
tired of the oppression and the wrong
that was being done both sides and he
said I want to talk to this man Cochise
directly I want to talk to him directly
they say you're crazy kill you cuz skin
you they'll do this and he says I want
to talk to him I want to explain to him
how there can be a peace between the
settlers and between the natives so
obviously savage he's an Indian walks
barefooted yes bows and arrows we have
the US Cavalry we'll be done with him in
three months we'll eradicate the lands
from them and they'll be on a
reservation
so he said oil he maybe maybe he doesn't
want the shoes maybe he can't read and
write
maybe he doesn't know how to use this
instrument so on and so forth he says
but him and his Scouts they know
everything
we'll pass way in the entire state of
Arizona there's not a hill it's not a
well it's not nothing that they don't
know by heart and you use maps and
compasses you have that Scouts and you
get lost and so on and so forth so the
point that I'm trying to get to is is
that it's about culture someone who
write something for someone who Limor
eyes or something you understand that's
addressed from the point okay someone
who understands something the natural
way is no less inferior this someone who
uses a computer or an instrument unless
we're based on I'm superior to you
you're inferior to me and that's similar
to Jeff so in order jad was something
that many people they didn't consider to
be true they considered to be a lie it
had to be made up there's no way one man
can memorize as much and that's because
they came from societies which
everything was pin in pad pen and paper
what do you mean you found your way from
one island to the next without a compass
what do you mean you didn't use this
type of navigation what do you mean you
found your way from one Hill through
another Valley it's impossible you're
lying you and that's because you were
trained to use accomplish your training
you've met you're trained to use this
instrument in this man who has no shoes
walking barefooted he has all it at what
naturally so that's how we have to
understand inwardly gel is that as a
tremendous amazing feat and it isn't
some mystical science either as many of
you think so mr. science it's tangible
it's practical
it's tangent one is practice when animal
hadith is not a mystical science is a
tangible and practical science but just
because something is beyond your grasp
and beyond your limit and beyond your
culture it does not mean that it is
false and fabricated and spurious that's
the point it's a good point and I think
that this is a very pertinent point
especially considering the fact that
we're living in a society that's become
obviously Hypertech there is this hyper
technological society and stuff like
that so now in North our cultural
paradigm that oh this is this could be
done like you just mentioned it's a
beautiful example that especially in the
past that people be memorizing names and
their know their tribal lineage and
know what their fourth cousin their
fourth paternal great-aunt he was named
and all of these things that was
standard knowledge for human being
written say Arabia at that time now it's
completely abundant knowledge it's not
as and so people find it more difficult
to that things would have been memorized
in this way that exact words and freight
mean exactly understood and so on and so
forth but that that is what Clifford is
actually referred to this is very
important sources think description is
that in order and and is this courtroom
of kind of imposing cultural paradigms
on other ancient and medieval paradigms
that causes the like the gap of
information I think that's right well
what I wanted to ask you now I think
which is an interesting segue because we
took junket and the idea of because the
idea of Jakarta Dean I mean coming from
wrong is the idea of making criticisms
like historical criticisms against the
character or individuals such that
history would not be accepted from them
and it was done for and all the other
half a deal is actually saying that the
just nature of this individual and the
fit nature of them to be able to
transmit history this science is now
unfortunately being used by youngsters
and by people who are trying to learn
the religion by people like you know on
the extreme side of people who claim to
be seller fees and so on a sofa order to
its their companions and to attack their
colleagues and to attack mature and
Oliver and to to in the guise of trying
to protect the religion of preserver in
the same way as it was in the early days
where is the and the fallacy in this I
mean where have they gotten it from of
course clear clear very important
question um no not about that living in
United States from the east coast I can
relate to this personally no doubt well
I'll say person
is we have to understand that I don't
know who exactly but I do believe that
there is someone or there are people who
have an intentional design to spread
confusion among the Muslims yeah and I
don't believe that is a conspiracy
theory and my heart is effect and Allah
knows best is that there every person or
persons was diplomatic grief and have
systematically created things made
things made ways Lynn Ashton and folder
to make things worse than what they
already are with the Muslims yeah it's a
bad confusion mislead people take
people's rights well I didn't say that
but I said what national photo spread
confusion and then eyes no doc this is
one of the strongest rules so the fact
or the idea that I have someone who
never studied I have someone who barely
has studied the Abbott language I have
someone who has barely learned to friend
the basics of his recitation I have
someone who's a mature istic strategy we
say a mystic he is now the master of
jammu toddy and anybody can he noun
determines who's Justin who's unjust
who's equitable who's discouraged he
noun determines who to listen to who to
watch
khuda take from he noun determines who's
when in paradise was not whom Allah has
mercy upon whom are does not mercy upon
he noun determines who's qualified to
speak and teach on Islam that's a joke
obviously it's a laughingstock if you
were that concerned about Islam in the
Sunna and hadith and RT then the way of
the Sun if you would have left and you
came you were studied
that's first almost you you would have
left American you've studied and you
would have studied for two three years
you would stay there for very long time
you've accomplished things you have been
evaluated if you have had that much
later upon swimming uh and Dean and I'll
kinda let alone become a master of other
men you have a message yourself yet so
that's first and foremost you don't have
to go any further by saying that it's a
laughingstock as a joke okay I said
muscle Raheja as they say pedagogy I
need puppets is a
shadow shadow puppet it's a joke yeah
you can't be serious something you
cannot be serious okay so that's first
and foremost
mmm yeah he bit my enemy my head oh they
considered someone who didn't travel who
didn't leave their country who didn't go
out and face the arduous challenges the
pain the rigorous rigorous challenges of
Rizla they wouldn't even consider him to
be of anything worth mentioning it meant
in mind he says autobots one lad this
woman who rush then he says for people
you can expect no good from theory
there's no good that's gonna come from
these four people and from those four
people they mentioned war our children
yet to what Heidi to be better de well I
he he is the man who writes down hard
eats in his own country and he doesn't
travel to other countries and even my
teen in my mama didn't buck bed that was
the center of civilization the Sumerians
the Assyrians before Islam let alone
Islam that was the cradle of
civilization Mesopotamia let alone its
them I need a key that was all above
that and they said if you don't leave
invoke that and you gonna Kufa and
bustle and loss it if you don't go to
the Hejaz so you don't go to the message
so and so forth then you will not be
successful if you don't go out and seek
hadith from other than your town in your
city so what would they say about
someone who never even studied in their
city who doesn't live and didn't even
back then so before we go further and
defending and I mean we say that it is a
joke it's a joke it's a laughingstock
you're not a student of knowledge let
alone any man let alone an island let
alone some who's qualified to speak
about the honor of other people and then
company of other people so I would say
that it stops there if you have not
studied you have not traveled you
haven't went anywhere for years I'd
agree my systematically keeps I don't
talk about anyone hadith don't talk
about a Muslims honor because this
Muslim was starving and suffering and
you were in a UK eating fish and chips
[Laughter]
interesting a buyer is that a lot I mean
their faulty reasoning I'm in two weeks
we'll say here is that they for example
give him example hey they would use a
chef like chef Gabrielle McCauley
they'll say he praised us ok so this is
the prey system so now they've given up
on them so we're the true seller fees
for the sake of argument and what we're
gonna do is we're gonna determine for
you guys the public when you said is the
one on the hut who and who was bought on
the bottle who is the one on the truth
and who's the one on the Forester are
being given money like s pubs we have
certifications UK you have tried in
America you have figureheads like I will
Khadijah you have Y R then you have you
know Musa riches and they are now a
freaking the master just to go to the
cleansing cream but to actually
pronounce tab D on an individual doctor
say you're an innovator you're Adela is
lost and this has and this is the
problem with far-reaching effects that
it can stop marriages from taking place
it can actually cause divorces and it
can be a segue to divorce in court
family discord
communal crash all of this folder he
refers to the chaos that is referring to
and as obviously stopping people from
listening and benefiting from
individuals who who who are trying to
call to Islam who are not part of their
own cult or their own group or whatever
it is and so this is all built upon a
praise system okay that we've gotten
this praise from this year but in fact
those in same individuals many of which
have named their names haven't studied
Arabic language they can't communicate
in the language they can't even speak
Arabic they can't read the Quran I will
how did you cannot read the Quran so he
cannot read the that you know the actual
crime and this wild cotton is speaking
in in a conversational Arabic way and
now they're taking upon themselves rappy
because that a take away the honor of
Muslims so does it delusions of
well I guess Islam salafiyyah the way
the Soloff is the praise of [__] that's
it yeah that's what it is quality
content in knowledge no [__] will
impress us
Hoss that's it but they wouldn't take
the wooden except the standard for suck
I mean if you went to a dog if you went
to a cop right and you said well this is
this doctor praised me but did you go
through the process of learn that's not
important medicine the science of
Medicine rather the doctor impression he
himself is a doctor right right
he's legitimized through was through
being a what her doctor yes okay he
studied all right so I think that's the
best way of looking at it is is that is
the way of the son of his father is it
just the praise from the supposed praise
of one scholar if it it if that's if
that's what Islam is and the Sunnah and
way of the Salafi my momma if that's
what it is then there's no discussion
between us in them if that's was
thinking filled in as literally it's
nothing to talk about
and if that's not the case then I think
you should sit down and reinvestigate
your theory now we are upon guidance
because she ran and spoke of us he's got
one of us and because he was praised by
this island and then this animals
praised by the atom and it trickles down
to the UK and we're down the masters of
enmity Jam supposedly John wrote a deal
supposedly and we can push out what we
want and pull in who we want if that's
what you honestly think and feel allows
MODOK we're living in a great state of
illusion and delusion okay to think that
that that's how it works
all right there's so many different ways
of looking at the fallacy of this but
once again if twenty years of study 15
years of studying
scholastic achievements if all of them
are ignored and this date because of one
general vague praise of one item then I
would say
go ahead well you can't argue that candy
not nothing to say that's what you
consider the way of guidance
mmm Achmed in Meru Jeff Hardy you mean
Muslim mmm tell me ma'am I would if they
considered one general vague idea of one
item to be enough for an errand I mean
it cheapens the enterprise doesn't that
mean it cheapens the entire and surprise
for them to think that a single prays a
good word I think that it's extremely
disrespectful to knowledge yes sir and I
think that the people who claim to love
knowledge and love the scholars they
themselves are extremely disrespectful
the scholars seem disrespectful from so
many different aspects and from those
aspects are someone of no type of
scholastic background to be attached to
someone of a scholastic background how
is this year representative in the west
learn shameful and I'm not saying it's
the disrespect any scholar and I'm not
saying is to speak bad of any scholar
but this is a reality it's a harsh
reality how this person your deputy your
representative and this person has not
made any formal studies in this room I
myself I don't comprehend that they
don't comprehend and how someone who's
the
yani the least the chief scholastically
to be the leader I don't understand I
find I mean I would if I had a marriage
the problem I wouldn't I mean I wouldn't
do it like you know someone who can't
read the Quran I mean I would find it
very scary to find that this is the only
to say the least yeah yeah they beliefs
there's so many different problems with
their whole entire argument in premise
but what I'm doing right now is focusing
on have we imitated those people the
prophets of my sudden says were meant to
Shepherd bill Coleman for a minute and
most people to understand I did in a
negative sense what were imitates the
people he's from them
good and bad so are we actually copying
and imitating Mohammed given a Medini so
gana Modi are we are we being like them
they sought knowledge how can a person
claim to love the subtle
and he's opposed the foundation of the
son of a solid which is in which is
color which is Whistler and how can any
scholar approve and allow this person to
bear his name in his legacy in Western
countries and like you said marriage
divorce matches all types of affairs it
doesn't stop and which a person has the
full monopoly I determine who gets
married who gets divorced I determine
what mastery opens what messages I open
how do you allow someone who's yeah I
mean I don't want to say anything bad
about anyone but happy about someone who
has no scholastic achievements
represents you hmm
I find that personally extremely
problematic and the student is the way
they come across this the way they they
reach their conclusion is as well this
is for example I I'm not sure if I heard
this from you one of your lectures that
you were saying that when allah subhanaw
taala was talking about having led to me
our Latura
he didn't put caveats in place he didn't
say anything except this and except that
he says and hold firm to the Rope of
Allah and and you know don't become
divided but if I came on if I came on or
yourself we came on white power
we said let's hold and not be divided
you can expect resistance immediately
and one of the reasons behind that is in
Allah the unification of the Muslims the
strength of the Muslims is not the
objective whether the objective is to
weaken the Muslims and make them further
separated and to spread further chaos
you think is that parallel there like
you know that this my son conspiratorial
but the American government's bid to try
and will some some argue put black
people holding one completely and equip
them with weapons so intuitive and
create these kind of gang violence is
black on black crime or all that kind of
thing divide and conquer let them all
kill themselves kind of thing let them
destroy themselves
is there a parallel between that
approach and quote with these there are
no accidents
hmm no coincidences there lies no doubt
that there are no accidents and no
coincidences where did these things come
from who supports them and like you just
said that is the backbone of their
legitimacy Schieffelin has praised us
why did he praise you
yeah and what was the extent of his
praise and was the detail of his praise
and does his praise override other
things from Quran from Sunnah Fadi from
consensus or other scholars disparaging
you so why what has happened like this
what is the many there many before and
after there many there many and the
point is not to teach scholar against
Cara that's what that's what they do
that's not the point the point is that
what is the fruit and the result
what's the and the result and very
important point is is that who's being
refuted who's being attacked people have
clear innovations clear misguidance
clear Kufa are those are people or are
there others so I have no doubt of my
heart and Allah knows best is that there
are people who don't want good for the
OMA yeah and they want further division
further separation and then they try to
justify in Islam if I their dark
intentions by saying oh this principle
and all this or this but the end result
is what the end result is so at the end
of the day at the end of the day at the
end of the day the whole class above the
confusion who is son if he was not sent
a team who's refuted who was being
refuted shipful and praised us [__] for
that spoke against this one so on so
forth and gentleman brief is all a big
game it's a big game ok it's a big game
and over the last 2025 years we've seen
the results of that game yeah if a
person actually he's trying to follow
the way of the son of a Saudi and trying
to be son of Qi and trying to follow the
tradition of Heinie's then nothing would
stop him or her from doing that mmm
bottom line because someone you're not a
subtly because you said this you're not
a subtle thing because you did this and
you're a deviant ok no problem
you're not assertive fiing your deviant
as well because you oppose the subtle
you did
travel to see in you didn't study you
didn't go anywhere you didn't learn
anything I didn't copy the code Manama
that's the first thing I learned
we're just systematic knowledge where's
your formal Islamic education if you
love the start of so much Harvey not
imitated and copy them and emulated them
in their relentless tall above it so
let's answer that question first let's
put that on the table first once we do
that everything else become easier and
that's because you're not qualified as
sweeping this issue
you're not qualified to talk about this
clastic science you have no formal
education we don't want your worthless
PDF we don't you understand anyone can
write a PDF anyone can cut and paste ten
people can sit in a room and put an
article show us where you have followed
the way the mimic met and party and saw
it systemic in once you do that then we
can talk when we can discuss that's what
I would the concept of I've got a
question for you about a towel and I'm
busy with temple and we talked about
this is quite a concept of people or
selphie not working with people who are
not celephais etc etc where do you stand
on this on this matter like dude what do
you see as do you see a problematic for
example if there is an enterprise well
risk let's say our enterprise or charity
enterprise or whatever is a project that
is to be done and Muslims from different
denominations if there's a common good
black Muslim a variety must have a
common interest for all of those Muslims
that they would work together on even
though for example you might have Sufi
and Salafi let's say for the sake of
argument do you would you say that so
long as you know one is not we're not
unifying upon maokai and we're not
unifying upon Friedel positions but so
long as one is able to freely
distinguish themselves identical by
identity that in some context this
wouldn't be a problem
would you take the hard-line position of
those individuals that say that I would
say that we don't cooperate with anyone
unless they're on exactly we're we're
upon if they want guidance they'll come
to us if
want the truth they'll come to us it is
absolutely Haram to go to them to speak
to them to teach them you can't do
anything in your community your country
your state anyone else that is outside
of our gates is a deviant they're going
to the fire of hell and a laws angles
then we are guided we have the knowledge
these are the scholars that we take from
and other people that oppose us they are
partisans they have party partisanship
with them his BIA
even though we say only us only me and
the whole entire UK only these and whole
Arabia only these only only only only
only only and we are not to do any
cooperation with anyone unless they are
101 percent absolutely
that's my treat and that is the way that
the Muslims will unify and that is the
way that the Muslims will stand against
their enemies and that is the way that
the Muslims will bring honor and dignity
to the name of Islam and the word of
Allah will be the highest in the land
through this ideology and through this
practice that's my belief on that of
course if a master invites me I've
studied in Medina they said please come
give a class I can't give a class of
course not
I can't give a photo of course not if
the ignorant Muslims in my city say oh
we knew you were a little kid now you
please come teach us of course I can
[Laughter]
some permissible that's not my answer to
that question would you have
conversations with some people who do
believe a genuine level that there's no
there's no room for corporation at all
in any situation as I was saying go back
to the scholars that they quote don't
look at the proofs and evidences and
that's because this is something very
paradoxical and if you've debate with
someone of this mindset the debate will
start off with Quran Sunnah no doubt you
bring Quran and Sunnah in your favor
that really supports
then they say what scholars you quotes
Karl exactly how it went down when I
spoke to one enjoy religion scholars is
about friends you go back soon they say
way the discussion went with me one of
them was the ideas that you know how
non-believer taqwa is that is a general
verse and and unless you get some
linkages that see so to specify and we
have to go with the general a and what
they did was you can't you can't allow
the game to go that far it's a joke it's
a game yeah once more once more is it
permissible for you to go to this
message or they whatever cetera you say
it is permissible for me to go why is it
permissible a law says this the prophecy
says that the debate starts off with
Quran and hadith well it they can't
reach you a net then it turns into
scholars scholars scholars scholars
okay no problem we don't have to mention
the proofs of grantees let's talk about
scholars you caught another scholar
three scholars he said no that's not
he's not a specialist in this or he
doesn't know this that's from his
mistakes and that's from his errors okay
we can't wait on time on scholars that
can we use each mark commuted the
argument will never go anywhere it
starts off with each T head and ends up
with took heed if you say well I'm a
blind follow of this island who said
it's permissible what I said no you
can't be a blind follower of him you
could only be a Brancato of our ship on
this year so it's a game you cannot
allow the game to go on it's not a
Scholastic debate it is not a crucial of
imminency had it's an issue of luck
it's a game it's a joke you call them
out you invite them to have a scholastic
debate with the condition of no
technique they won't accept
let me clarify what I meant let me
explain what I snow will only deal with
your recorded statements we're only cut
and paste and edited interpret how we
want to introduce a game and do not
allow the game to go that far let alone
the fact that these people as I said
before they have not formally studied
this room they do not deserve that type
of respect
you sit and have an actual scholastic
debate because they're unprepared for
that Quran hadith then it turns into
Scott Scott is back to its name you
never ever ever win right and we all
know the man chef in Montana he's some
of everything and that is if you beat
them if you win if you make a point then
the last frontier is to insult you and
call you a bad name idiot okay you said
Matt up to who whenever I debated in a
learning man I was when I now got any oh
man up to Germany and I've never debated
an ignorant man except to the ignorant
one and that's because inaudible
Hannibal partly sunny the weaker your
knowledge DeLong your tongue and so you
can't win there's no making no sense out
of it there they're not going to listen
to anything you say anything you bring
anything at your crews if you have a
debate that starts off with the system
you'll take it to another system that's
person foremost that's first and
foremost last but not least is last but
not least the concept of the tower when
are they doing what up wha what master
do Kenny cannot go to I would add to it
like that's ask ourselves these great
scholars that we all quote from and
learned from and they quote from what
was their opinion in view did share a
beer go to other countries and other
messages other centers the shekel and
Danny riding mulatto what man did he
teach in what books did he teach this is
a serious question
as these are the best they mean I'm open
when he returned from Saudi to Yemen
what message did he teach it what books
did he teach what's up easy to teach
between me and you is history and that
is Abdullah Mubarak and many of the son
of they will say columnist at myeloma
and Kevin is that man now I need him
attorney whenever they lied and he
fabricated we used history against them
beautiful and many of the Sun up they
would also say Bane and I will bein in a
coal mill cotton between us and between
them are lengths and we spend by the
legs of the table is the assignee the
history so you're telling me that I
can't go into any Masjid unless I'm
unless unless unless all right let's not
talk about Quran and Sunnah because we
already know that they will never go
nowhere about quoted verse you say
that's not the proper understanding
ahora hadith you say that's not the
proper understanding all right no
problem a verse that you quote I need
that you quote of course that's the
proper understanding mashallah no
problem
so let's quote the scholars that you
quote and let's go to history and this
is not a slander I hope it's not slander
it's not an accusation and it's not a
lie but as historical fact that dr.
Schiff revered even had a medically read
his life when he went when he traveled
who he taught please went out with how
can you say that
how can you read this and then say oh no
that's specific to him Chikara Benny
Muhammad Allah read the messages on the
books that he taught and the messages in
which he taught he'd be shocked what
you'll find she'll move around him Allah
before he established the magic
read what he did you'll be shocked she
would say me chef embezzling I read what
they said read what they did and you'll
be shocked so let's not talk about Quran
hadith sometime I thought of because
we'll never ever go anywhere talking
like that but I'm gonna prove to you
that you're a hypocrite and that you're
a liar and that you hide information and
you hide facts and you sweep history
under the rug because it's against your
agenda that's that's that's that's all I
would say between me in between you is
that historical fact why haven't you
mentioned that about himself
yeah I mean I've seen I've seen [__]
falls down and stuff appear on all kinds
of shows and all kinds of programs and I
mean just last year they had like a
Kings meeting with her people from all
kinds of Dorma nations I think some she
is with it in fact as well and the Sufis
between meeting you is there the Islamic
University of Medina you can't study
there because there his be teachers
people upon the way of a Hassan al-banna
these were many scholars and many
students of knowledge who studied in him
and say and it's also paradoxical
because they all call themselves sanity
so those who come from the match they
say and this is a this is a fact it is
Haram
you cannot study an Islamic University
of Medina why can't you
they say because all your teachers they
are not solitary they're not upon the
correct way is there Hani muslimeen and
Jamar to believe then this and then and
so it's own and so forth and that's a
fact
that is a fact it's not a conspiracy a
wait those who do not like the Salafis
of the manche
do not agree with them don't like shake
yeah hello Judy and this one ever what
do they say they say no that's wrong you
can go to Medina you can't study in
Medina but the history teachers the
Deacon teachers you know you just you
know you navigate through it you pick
and choose we take the class and you
move forward all right no problem for
you so I can listen to a deviant teacher
in school for five days out of the week
four years out of my life but I can't go
and treat your class the ignorant
Muslims in the message it don't you find
a little hypocritical and contradictory
fluid at the least
as you mentioned Shanna this scholar he
appears on this TV program he goes to
this message shakily I went out with
this group he taught them he went out
with them that's fine but we live in the
lens of cooker and [__] I wish their
church bells synagogues and Catholic
Church we're not allowed to make any
tower any teaching any investment any
contribution to our societies unless
there's a long extensive list of
conditions and purposes I humbly find
that to be extremely hypocritical the
lands of the Muslims where the most
harshness should be used
I wish the Sunnis are dominant and
backed by the government and paid for
and funded they have the ability to say
no you can't come here no we're not
going there no we're not speaking here
and for argument's sake if we had to go
and do something which was wrong for
argument's sake due to the necessity of
the lands of court on which we live
let alone the fact that these Muslims
amassed you they're ignorant they don't
have no formal way their cab drivers
they're immigrants they're people who
came home from jail they need people to
teach them to educate them and give them
the basis of Islam and you tell me that
I cannot go there oh [__] for land could
and Schieffelin did I don't see any
consistency in your argument rather I
find the rules to be extremely
hypocritical and until you establish the
consistent
seeing in parallel until you attack that
you speak out against that moon car and
that evil don't say nothing about the UK
and America
Lancel cook for this chick because
you're not you're not being honest
you're not being honest and I can say
these are a few examples and it's not as
landing as any scholars its historical
facts historical facts read about our
granny she looks blue she's gonna be
read where they went and what they did
in what mashes they went into and what
they did to establish what they had this
time to read about it don't take it from
me but we know for sure that they're not
going to mention that they have they
have no scholastic integrity joke it's a
game now and this podcast I wanted to
ask you now spoken about lots of
different things things relating to the
preservation just some things relating
to palpable Island we also talked about
some aspects of the community fringe
aspects divide-and-conquer attitudes of
these I wanted to ask you now general
advice okay for beginner for a day for
for the black you know especially our
field downloads in almost lives and
given our to different types of Muslims
who are just coming on practicing and
stuff like that what advice to give us
and in terms of moving forward and
practice to strengthen people clear
sincerity you gotta be sincere Who am I
really gonna swore and what do I want
for the people don't really adore anyone
good for them don't want them to be
guided what I want them to remain upon
misguidance analyze no doubt if you're
sincere and you honestly earnestly want
good for someone it's gonna have an
effect on what you do and how you do it
and just that one point alone that
attitude of if they wanted the guidance
they will come to us that's not sincere
approach it's not a sincere approach
it's not a sincere approach if they want
it enable come to us if they wanted to
be guided the neighbor that that's not
sincere that is a gang mentality and I
monopolizing mentality is that we have
the troops that no one else is entitled
to it arise so sincerity other class
you have to be sincere for La Scala for
yourself why am i speaking why am I
talking why don't I like you more how
many jab is it for the face of a law
sincerely or is it for other personal
reasons
if I don't like you because of something
that you did wrong with something that
you're saying wrong then anyone else who
does the same thing also I'm forced to
do what hate them as well but we don't
see that you went there you spoke your
deviant he went and spoke it's a
different story I'll speak with you I'll
talk with you but I won't speak with
this one I won't stop this one it's not
sincere I'm debate with you are the bill
with anyone every time they can Harry of
all walks of life and religious I'll sit
talk with them but I won't say anything
to this person that's not sincere and
that's because there's a clear prejudice
in your love and in your hate cleaner or
not okay so we have the concept of a
noble brother
a noble staff a noble teacher
masha'Allah
no one's noble except for these people
no one has any respect no contributions
to knowledge to in except for them
you can't be serious that's not sincere
and the proof that is not sincere is
that there's a prejudice and your love
and in your hate I love anyone who falls
under these conditions and I hate anyone
who does what falls on others condition
so I the class and the class sincerity
for yourself and having sincere
intentions for the people that you're
talking to and you're speaking to one
good for them you want them to be guided
you want them to receive a loss mercy
you want them to know the truth and not
I'm looking for them to go to the fire
though I'm searching for their mistakes
I'm searching for the errors I'm looking
for an excuse for me to legitimize them
being banished and outcast indent number
one number two is common sense idea and
a layman Muslim you both have the
responsibility of using common sense do
you honestly think and feel that this is
the religion of Allah deep inside this
chaotic mess do you think this is a slam
you think that's what Allah wants from
us do you think this is in do you think
it's a scholarship scholastic do you
think this is Dawa do you think this is
how you supposed to conduct yourself and
behave and carry yourself as a Muslim as
a scholar
as a Dahlia I do like sense that much
not knowledge but common basic occur and
we all know the value of the mind in the
Quran and the hadith and among the son
of a solid as far as the Quranic ayat
then we don't have to mention Allah says
about the absurd
after that Tom Hillen okay
allah awj Ellen says literally no hair a
lot of praise is the mind he praises
good sound common sense okay about
Lublin lieth Kahuna be half lop raises
up and the prophet alayhi salatu salam
in so many a hadith he taught the
campaigns the value of the sound mind he
said would be both a hardy kun-sun god
what a man is intimate with his wife is
charity what did the campaign in say el
sol la si ahi Masha what to who we are
who we have Angela
how can a man fulfill his base desires
his carnal desires and get a reward from
Allah how's that make sense what did the
prompts otherwise let him say all right
so know what I have he Harmon I care not
a word he says that if a man's fulfilled
his sexual desires and he get I said of
course it was so he paid the Companions
the power of the mind is that you have
to see things correctly okay the son of
a solid such as a nomadic riding along
thought it was praised many of the
scholars were saying they same era a to
my son Auckland pneumatic
he said I never saw its kind of hadith
when a greater mind a sharper mind and
sound an intellect any man magic
they didn't praise merit for spidey
didn't praise important in in praising
for safety by in this awesome they
praised him for his workforce so I had
in common sense and common sense is the
foundation of genius as a card the
foundation of a prodigy is to have sound
solid common sense and it also about in
our minority communities in America and
the UK in Canada was surrounding see all
the dogs he other bones around me how
many dogs did you hear barking so far
countless dogs what's around about cook
food and [__] innovation we're
surrounded by disobedience it is upon me
to use my common sense how can I make
things better how can I contribute to my
society and that mentality of you can't
you have to go back to him you have to
ask his permission that's not common
sense and we both know this not common
sense right
number three bentonite sada is deserve
success deserve success deserve guidance
deserve guidance one of the most
influential athletes of the 20th century
one of the most influential of them or
me in my life no doubt about that is
Mike Tyson Mike Tyson was far more than
just a boxer it was much more than just
a boxer and many people they don't give
him his proper status and value he
wasn't just a brute or brother it's far
more than that and his teacher his
mentor his [__] we all know was custom
ro custom ro when he adopted him he made
it his adopted son and he saw his
potential and he was literally a gifted
gifted young man there will be the
youngest heavyweight champion in the
history of boxing and so behind the law
that proved true
and right before he won the championship
custom auto died okay he was younger
than Floyd Patterson all right so the
point motor story is he gave this man
principles and values of life in the
boxing and from those principles and
those values was to deserve success he
would tell Mike Tyson you're not going
to win the fight because you're stronger
faster or to win the fight because you
deserve to win the fight and that's
because you trained harder than the next
man you studied it longer you worked
harder you made your body creaking
cringe and pride on pain you deserve to
win
so we're confused on would it take fun
to listen to who to sit with to sell it
feed who's not son of he this person
said this my friend this person is about
the hadith I don't know what to do learn
I'm confused
do you deserve guidance you deserve to
know how much of the basics of Islam
have you studied and mastered have you
assured for yourself that you deserve
not to be confused so most of us we want
to be guided we want to be sure we want
to be clear but we don't deserve it
we're not working for it we are not
studying the fundamentals of a slam
we're not reading the fundamental books
of slam we're not studying the
rudimentary things in the slam and then
we have the nerves to say I'm confused I
don't know who to listen to you don't
deserve to know you don't deserve to
have a clear distinction because you
yourself you don't value the
fundamentals you haven't trained hard
enough you have a worked hard enough
and I'm not someone being a scholar or
student knowledge I'm someone being a
fundamentally sound Muslim so that's a
very important piece of advice for
myself all of us is for us to deserve
success deserved victory and that is by
hard work and most of us are lazy when
lethargic we want instant gratification
satisfaction we want a shake to tell us
to give us a spot walk when the brothers
say it's oh listen to him and that's it
we don't want to use our minds we want
to conveniently be spoon-fed and
pampered and then we complain later on
when we're lied to and when we're
misguided and when someone goes astray
who complained it's so confusing one day
he's on a Sunday the next day he's on
innovation one day we're listening to
him next day he's a staunch in the
bigger you're gonna be let around you're
gonna be directed by you're gonna be
pulled by the ear by anyone pulls you
here and that's because you don't
deserve success so those are the three
pieces of advice that I would give
sincerity four lives or job is to use
your common sense and be in the nine
Charter is to train and to work hard and
the layman Muslim to compliment
incorporating the fundamentals of this
religion and for a part of in to
comprehend the rule and in which will
lead him to getting off the food or and
in a fact and the different
discrepancies among the scholars which
could be intimidating or confusing and
of course what the last part on is all
success laughter it's been a pleasure
having you on this podcast so this is
the seventh podcast and chat longer
they're trying to put them all up on
some kind of sound cloud platform what I
was going to say is that could you just
tell people about your YouTube channel
and your Instagram and some of your
socials for people that want to follow
you laughs example of hydron for hosting
me once again it was my pleasure
and I would say that I'm Angela we have
idea to Cybercom
idea to subbable.com and now on YouTube
we have several channels they've had a
disciple we have mostly Q&A also an
Instagram we have different lessons
quotes that we post Facebook as well and
basically hadith disciple something that
has been fermenting in my mind for many
many years when I first started the
youtube channel in 2012 those what I did
studies and on hamdullah I always wanted
to do something for myself by myself I
always wanted to be in sha Allah some
type of key towards good and I wanted to
share what Allah gave me I wanted to
allow people to have access to certain
things that they wouldn't normally have
access to via video via audio the books
that we discuss the things that we quote
from someone and so forth and some of
the things that we like and we love and
no clay M we'd like to share with that's
what I did this I was about that's one
whoopsie Q&A is about people they ask
questions people they post requests we
do different foot buzz so many things
hum that innovative five minutes of Veda
book reviews different things like this
in which we have two main themes the
first theme is to introduce the laymen
Muslim to the sciences of the swimmer
and the scientism hadith the most Fela
the terminology the books hardy the
preservation how the Sunna was preserved
in detail because obviously a podcast we
can't mention everything right and also
to give the Muslims advice admonishments
guidance and benefits those are the main
points of my the disciple and I hummed
it as much more than use a website or a
YouTube channel or we consider to be a
mindset or as we said a philosophy we
considered to be a school of thought a
way of looking at things a way of
practicing things empty in the cup
researching studies loving knowledge and
being formas being formless not being
rigid and stuck to one way or to one
path that's one person but to one place
these are some of the guiding principles
some of the guiding values on my
disciple and I'm very proud and I'm very
happy and very grateful that a lost
father inspired me to share some of
these things with the Muslims and
non-muslims as well
- Andrew Zirkin welcome for coming when
there's nothing well yeah I do then I'll
keep confirmed may Allah educate all of
us guide us to the straight path
I'm a long guy that's about that which
to people different we all want to stand
in front of him on the day of judgement
and he's gonna be the only judge the
only team and we're gonna we saw this
was the seventh episode of the m8
podcast that will head on to you for
listening to all of it was